My name is Doina Precup.
I'm a professor at McGill
University and I also
work DeepMind as a
research scientist.
A lot of my research
interests have to
do with abstraction in
reinforcement learning.
Reinforcement
learning agents have
to acquire two
kinds of knowledge.
One, is what we would call
procedural knowledge,
how to do things, and the policy
is the most basic
example of this.
But actually, there's lots of
other pieces of knowledge
we might want to have,
like how to interact with
particular objects or how to
travel between different places.
So I will talk about
this in terms of
skills or options or sometimes
goal-driven behavior.
We also would like to have
predictive knowledge or
empirical knowledge which means,
what might happen conditioned
on an agent's behavior?
This is value functions but
also other things like
for example models.
Now, there is certain
characteristics we would
like to have for these kinds
of pieces of knowledge.
One is we would like this
knowledge to be learnable,
so that we can
acquire it from data,
we would also like
it to be expressive.
We would like for
the agent to be able
to know about
many different things and
different circumstances,
and we would like
the agent to be able
to compose pieces of knowledge
that it already has
into larger pieces.
Those are the main things
for our knowledge representation.
Knowledge representation has to
generalize both in terms of
the agent's behavior over time
scales as well as in terms
of the agents capacity to reason
about the world about
its perceptions.
So that's where state
abstraction function
approximation come in.
I will talk a little bit more
about generalization in terms
of procedural knowledge over
the different timescales.
Now, why might we want to
have something like this?
Well, a lot of our agents
when they are "born",
they have a very limited set of
actions and these
actions always last one
time step because we want to fit
with the markup decision
process framework.
But in realistic circumstances,
agents might need to
keep a course of action
for many time steps.
For example, if
you're thinking of
going from Montreal to Edmonton,
you don't want to think in
terms of muscle twitches,
you'd like to think in terms of
taking a cab to the
airport and then fly to
Edmonton and taking a cab to
the university and maybe
grabbing dinner in the meantime.
These are periods of
time that are extended,
they are not the same.
But the agent should be able to
reason at this level because
that means its plan will
now be much shorter,
only four steps instead of
many thousands of
steps potentially,
and also the plan might
be reusable in other
circumstances.
For example, if we
want to travel to
Edmonton or to Toronto
or some other city,
the agent would still go through
the same kinds of steps.
How do we formalize this idea of
abstraction at the temporal level
or at the behavioral level?
One way to do this is through
this notion of options.
We're going to think
of an option as
consisting of three components.
One is an initiation set,
that means the set of
circumstances under
which an option
could be initiated.
For example, we can only
fly somewhere if we
are at the airport.
So being at the airport
is an initiation set.
A second component is
an internal policy.
That means, a way of picking
preventive actions while
the option is executing.
For example, if we're
walking to the gate,
the walking motion is
a policy and that will
take control and execute.
This is the usual probability of
taking preventive actions
conditioned on the agent state.
Then, we have a
termination condition.
Typically, this is
also stochastic.
It basically tells us what
is the probability of
the agent finishing the behavior
in any particular state.
So if we're walking to the gate,
we might finish this behavior
because we've reached
the gate of the airplane
but we might also
finish the behavior.
For example, if
there is an alarm,
maybe we want to go
outside the building,
so switch the behavior
to something else.
If we think in terms
of these components,
actually agents have now
transient behavior that they can
execute and we can also think of
models that are paired up with
these chance of behavior.
Each option will have
a model and its model
consists of the expected reward
that the injured might
get along the way,
and essentially a transition
probability distribution
of the states where
it might end up.
Because options take
different amounts of time,
instead of just thinking of
transitions to next states,
we are in fact going
to think of transition
to a next time as well.
So this will be a
joint distribution,
in fact, over states
and over times.
But once an agent is
endowed with options,
it essentially reasons in the
same way that it would in
MDP except we have
what's now called the
semi-Markov decision process.
The Markov property
still holds but
the duration of a
behavior is not fixed,
it's actually based on
probability distribution.
However, all of the planning
and learning algorithms that
you already know and love
such as valid duration,
temporal difference
learning, all the
other things that are talked
about in this course,
work in almost the same way in
semi-Markov decision
processes as they do in MDPs.
So we can bring to bear
all of the ideas from
these algorithms in order
to learn about options.
One of the interesting
questions is how to do
temporal obstruction at
the same time as doing
state obstruction or doing
function approximation.
Ideally, we would like to
do both of these things.
So we would like to reason
about the airport rather than
specific centimeters in space
just like we would like to
think about the
behavior of going to
the airport instead
of muscle twitches.
However, these two are actually
distinct and we would
like them to work
together in some sense.
But how to get
good temporal obstruction and
state obstruction
at the same time,
and in a way in which
they communicate
well with each other
is actually still an
open research problem.
Similarly, one interesting
open restricts
problem is figuring out
where options come from.
So who tells us what is a
good termination condition?
Well, this is something
that we would like to find
out that we don't quite
have a handle on it.